README.md, before:

# [OpenCompany](https://github.com/open-company) Interaction Service

[![MPL License](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MPL-blue.svg?style=flat)](https://www.mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/)
[![Build Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/open-company/open-company-interaction.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/open-company/open-company-interaction)
[![Dependencies Status](https://versions.deps.co/open-company/open-company-interaction/status.svg)](https://versions.deps.co/open-company/open-company-interaction)


## Background

> Tell the truth about any situation and you are delivered from lack of progress, but become hypocritical or lying, and you may be in bondage for life.

> -- [Auliq Ice](https://www.linkedin.com/in/auliqice/)

Companies struggle to keep everyone on the same page. People are hyper-connected in the moment with chat apps, but as teams grow chat gets noisy and people miss key information. Chat might be ideal for spontaneous conversations, but it’s terrible for the more substantial discussions that aren’t meant to be urgent. The solution - **focused conversations that build transparency and alignment**.

OpenCompany is the open source platform that powers [Carrot](https://carrot.io), a SaaS app for building transparency and alignment. With Carrot, important company updates, announcements, stories, and strategic plans create focused, topic-based conversations that keep everyone aligned without interruptions.

Transparency expectations are changing. Organizations need to change as well if they are going to attract and retain savvy teams. Just as open source changed the way we build software, transparency changes how we build successful companies with information that is open, interactive, and always accessible. **Carrot turns transparency into a competitive advantage**.

To get started, head to: [Carrot](https://carrot.io/)


## Overview

The OpenCompany Interaction Service handles reading, writing and propagating user comments and reactions.


## Local Setup

Prospective users of [Carrot](https://carrot.io/) should get started by going to [Carrot.io](https://carrot.io/). The following local setup is **for developers** wanting to work on the OpenCompany Interaction Service.

Most of the dependencies are internal, meaning [Leiningen](https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen) will handle getting them for you. There are a few exceptions:

* [Java 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) - a Java 8 JRE is needed to run Clojure
* [Leiningen](https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen) 2.7.1+ - Clojure's build and dependency management tool
* [RethinkDB](http://rethinkdb.com/) v2.3.6+ - a multi-modal (document, key/value, relational) open source NoSQL database

#### Java

Chances are your system already has Java 8+ installed. You can verify this with:

```console
java -version
```

If you do not have Java 8+ [download it](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and follow the installation instructions.

#### Leiningen

Leiningen is easy to install:

1. Download the latest [lein script from the stable branch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/technomancy/leiningen/stable/bin/lein).
1. Place it somewhere that's on your $PATH (`env | grep PATH`). `/usr/local/bin` is a good choice if it is on your PATH.
1. Set it to be executable. `chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/lein`
1. Run it: `lein` This will finish the installation.

Then let Leiningen install the rest of the dependencies:

```console
git clone https://github.com/open-company/open-company-interaction.git
cd open-company-interaction
lein deps
```

#### RethinkDB

RethinkDB is easy to install with official and community supported packages for most operating systems.

##### RethinkDB for Mac OS X via Brew

Assuming you are running Mac OS X and are a [Homebrew](http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/) user, use brew to install RethinkDB:

```console
brew update && brew install rethinkdb
```

If you already have RethinkDB installed via brew, check the version:

```console
rethinkdb -v
```

If it's older, then upgrade it with:

```console
brew update && brew upgrade rethinkdb && brew services restart rethinkdb
```


Follow the instructions provided by brew to run RethinkDB every time at login:

```console
ln -sfv /usr/local/opt/rethinkdb/*.plist ~/Library/LaunchAgents
```

And to run RethinkDB now:

```console
launchctl load ~/Library/LaunchAgents/homebrew.mxcl.rethinkdb.plist
```

Verify you can access the RethinkDB admin console:

```console
open http://localhost:8080/
```

After installing with brew:

* Your RethinkDB binary will be at `/usr/local/bin/rethinkdb`
* Your RethinkDB data directory will be at `/usr/local/var/rethinkdb`
* Your RethinkDB log will be at `/usr/local/var/log/rethinkdb/rethinkdb.log`
* Your RethinkDB launchd file will be at `~/Library/LaunchAgents/homebrew.mxcl.rethinkdb.plist`

##### RethinkDB for Mac OS X (Binary Package)

If you don't use brew, there is a binary installer package available for Mac OS X from the [Mac download page](http://rethinkdb.com/docs/install/osx/).

After downloading the disk image, mounting it (double click) and running the rethinkdb.pkg installer, you need to manually create the data directory:

```console
sudo mkdir -p /Library/RethinkDB
sudo chown <your-own-user-id> /Library/RethinkDB
mkdir /Library/RethinkDB/data
```

And you will need to manually create the launchd config file to run RethinkDB every time at login. From within this repo run:

```console
cp ./opt/com.rethinkdb.server.plist ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.rethinkdb.server.plist
```

And to run RethinkDB now:

```console
launchctl load ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.rethinkdb.server.plist
```

Verify you can access the RethinkDB admin console:

```console
open http://localhost:8080/
```

After installing with the binary package:

* Your RethinkDB binary will be at `/usr/local/bin/rethinkdb`
* Your RethinkDB data directory will be at `/Library/RethinkDB/data`
* Your RethinkDB log will be at `/var/log/rethinkdb.log`
* Your RethinkDB launchd file will be at `~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.rethinkdb.server.plist`


##### RethinkDB for Linux

If you run Linux on your development environment (good for you, hardcore!) you can get a package for you distribution or compile from source. Details are on the [installation page](http://rethinkdb.com/docs/install/).

##### RethinkDB for Windows

RethinkDB [isn't supported on Windows](https://github.com/rethinkdb/rethinkdb/issues/1100) directly. If you are stuck on Windows, you can run Linux in a virtualized environment to host RethinkDB.

#### Required Secrets

A secret is shared between the Interaction service and the [Authentication service](https://github.com/open-company/open-company-auth) for creating and validating [JSON Web Tokens](https://jwt.io/).

An [AWS SQS queue](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) is used to pass messages to the Interaction service from Slack. Setup an SQS Queue and key/secret access to the queue using the AWS Web Console or API.

You will also need to subscribe the SQS queue to the [Slack Router service](https://github.com/open-company/open-company-slack-router) SNS topic. To do this you will need to go to the AWS console and follow these instruction:

Go to the AWS SQS Console and select the SQS queue configured above. From the 'Queue Actions' dropdown, select 'Subscribe Queue to SNS Topic'. Select the SNS topic you've configured your Slack Router service instance to publish to, and click the 'Subscribe' button.

Make sure you update the `CHANGE-ME` items in the section of the `project.clj` that looks like this to contain your actual JWT, and AWS secrets:

```clojure
    ;; Dev environment and dependencies
    :dev [:qa {
      :env ^:replace {
        :db-name "open_company_storage_dev"
        :liberator-trace "true" ; liberator debug data in HTTP response headers
        :hot-reload "true" ; reload code when changed on the file system
        :open-company-auth-passphrase "this_is_a_dev_secret" ; JWT secret
        :aws-access-key-id "CHANGE-ME"
        :aws-secret-access-key "CHANGE-ME"
        :aws-sqs-bot-queue "CHANGE-ME"
        :aws-sqs-slack-router-queue "CHANGE-ME"
        :aws-sns-interaction-topic-arn "" ; SNS topic to publish notifications (optional)        
        :log-level "debug"
      }
```

An optional [AWS SNS](https://aws.amazon.com/sns/) pub/sub topic is used to push notifications of interaction changes to interested listeners. If you want to take advantage of this capability, configure the `aws-sns-interaction-topic-arn` with the ARN (Amazon Resource Name) of the SNS topic you setup in AWS.

## Usage

Run the interaction service with: `lein start`

Or start a REPL with: `lein repl`

#### REPL

Next, you can try some things with Clojure by running the REPL from within this project:

```console
lein migrate-db
lein repl
```

Then enter these commands one-by-one, noting the output:

```clojure
;; start the development system
(go) ; NOTE: if you are already running the service externally to the REPL, use `(go 3737)` to change the port

;; create some interactions

(def author {
  :user-id "c133-43fe-8712"
  :teams ["f725-4791-80ac"]
  :name "Wile E. Coyote"
  :first-name "Wile"
  :last-name "Coyote"
  :avatar-url "http://www.emoticonswallpapers.com/avatar/cartoons/Wiley-Coyote-Dazed.jpg"
  :email "wile.e.coyote@acme.com"
  :auth-source "slack"
})

(interaction/create-comment! conn
  (interaction/->comment {:org-uuid "abcd-1234-abcd"
                          :board-uuid "1234-abcd-1234"
                          :resource-uuid "abcd-5678-abcd"
                          :body "That all looks great to me!"} author))

(interaction/create-reaction! conn
  (interaction/->reaction {:org-uuid "abcd-1234-abcd"
                           :board-uuid "1234-abcd-1234"
                           :resource-uuid "abcd-5678-abcd"
                           :reaction "😀"} author))

(interaction/create-comment-reaction! conn
  (interaction/->comment-reaction {:org-uuid "abcd-1234-abcd"
                                   :board-uuid "1234-abcd-1234"
                                   :resource-uuid "abcd-5678-abcd"
                                   :interaction-uuid "5678-abcd-5678"
                                   :reaction "👌"} author))
```

A Slack webhook is used to mirror Slack replies to OpenCompany comments back into OpenCompany.

To use the webhook from Slack with local development, you need to run the [Slack Router service](https://github.com/open-company/open-company-slack-router).

You will then need to subscribe the SQS queue to the correct SNS topic.
See the Slack Router service README.

## Technical Design

The interaction service is composed of 4 main responsibilities:

- CRUD of comments and reactions
- WebSocket notifications of comment and reaction CRUD to listening clients
- Pushing new comments to Slack
- Receiving new comments from Slack
- Publishing comment and reaction change notifications to interested subscribers via SNS

![Interaction Service Diagram](https://cdn.rawgit.com/open-company/open-company-interaction/mainline/docs/Interaction-Service.svg)

The Interaction Service shares a RethinkDB database instance with the [Storage Service](https://github.com/open-company/open-company-storage).

![Interaction Schema Diagram](https://cdn.rawgit.com/open-company/open-company-interaction/mainline/docs/Interaction-Schema.svg)

## Testing

Tests are run in continuous integration of the `master` and `mainline` branches on [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/open-company/open-company-interaction):

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/open-company/open-company-interaction.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/open-company/open-company-interaction)

To run the tests locally:

```console
lein kibit
lein eastwood
```


## Participation

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](https://github.com/open-company/open-company-interaction/blob/mainline/CODE-OF-CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.


## License

Distributed under the [Mozilla Public License v2.0](http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/).

Copyright © 2017-2018 OpenCompany, LLC.

Commit message:

Mozilla Public License v2.0 with the Common Clause

README.md, after:

# [OpenCompany](https://github.com/open-company) Interaction Service

[![Build Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/open-company/open-company-interaction.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/open-company/open-company-interaction)
[![Dependencies Status](https://versions.deps.co/open-company/open-company-interaction/status.svg)](https://versions.deps.co/open-company/open-company-interaction)


## Background

> Tell the truth about any situation and you are delivered from lack of progress, but become hypocritical or lying, and you may be in bondage for life.

> -- [Auliq Ice](https://www.linkedin.com/in/auliqice/)

Companies struggle to keep everyone on the same page. People are hyper-connected in the moment with chat apps, but as teams grow chat gets noisy and people miss key information. Chat might be ideal for spontaneous conversations, but it’s terrible for the more substantial discussions that aren’t meant to be urgent. The solution - **focused conversations that build transparency and alignment**.

OpenCompany is the source-available platform that powers [Carrot](https://carrot.io), a SaaS app for building transparency and alignment. With Carrot, important company updates, announcements, stories, and strategic plans create focused, topic-based conversations that keep everyone aligned without interruptions.

Transparency expectations are changing. Organizations need to change as well if they are going to attract and retain savvy teams. Just as open source changed the way we build software, transparency changes how we build successful companies with information that is open, interactive, and always accessible. **Carrot turns transparency into a competitive advantage**.

To get started, head to: [Carrot](https://carrot.io/)


## Overview

The OpenCompany Interaction Service handles reading, writing and propagating user comments and reactions.


## Local Setup

Prospective users of [Carrot](https://carrot.io/) should get started by going to [Carrot.io](https://carrot.io/). The following local setup is **for developers** wanting to work on the OpenCompany Interaction Service.

Most of the dependencies are internal, meaning [Leiningen](https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen) will handle getting them for you. There are a few exceptions:

* [Java 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) - a Java 8 JRE is needed to run Clojure
* [Leiningen](https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen) 2.7.1+ - Clojure's build and dependency management tool
* [RethinkDB](http://rethinkdb.com/) v2.3.6+ - a multi-modal (document, key/value, relational) open source NoSQL database

#### Java

Chances are your system already has Java 8+ installed. You can verify this with:

```console
java -version
```

If you do not have Java 8+ [download it](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and follow the installation instructions.

#### Leiningen

Leiningen is easy to install:

1. Download the latest [lein script from the stable branch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/technomancy/leiningen/stable/bin/lein).
1. Place it somewhere that's on your $PATH (`env | grep PATH`). `/usr/local/bin` is a good choice if it is on your PATH.
1. Set it to be executable. `chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/lein`
1. Run it: `lein` This will finish the installation.

Then let Leiningen install the rest of the dependencies:

```console
git clone https://github.com/open-company/open-company-interaction.git
cd open-company-interaction
lein deps
```

#### RethinkDB

RethinkDB is easy to install with official and community supported packages for most operating systems.

##### RethinkDB for Mac OS X via Brew

Assuming you are running Mac OS X and are a [Homebrew](http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/) user, use brew to install RethinkDB:

```console
brew update && brew install rethinkdb
```

If you already have RethinkDB installed via brew, check the version:

```console
rethinkdb -v
```

If it's older, then upgrade it with:

```console
brew update && brew upgrade rethinkdb && brew services restart rethinkdb
```


Follow the instructions provided by brew to run RethinkDB every time at login:

```console
ln -sfv /usr/local/opt/rethinkdb/*.plist ~/Library/LaunchAgents
```

And to run RethinkDB now:

```console
launchctl load ~/Library/LaunchAgents/homebrew.mxcl.rethinkdb.plist
```

Verify you can access the RethinkDB admin console:

```console
open http://localhost:8080/
```

After installing with brew:

* Your RethinkDB binary will be at `/usr/local/bin/rethinkdb`
* Your RethinkDB data directory will be at `/usr/local/var/rethinkdb`
* Your RethinkDB log will be at `/usr/local/var/log/rethinkdb/rethinkdb.log`
* Your RethinkDB launchd file will be at `~/Library/LaunchAgents/homebrew.mxcl.rethinkdb.plist`

##### RethinkDB for Mac OS X (Binary Package)

If you don't use brew, there is a binary installer package available for Mac OS X from the [Mac download page](http://rethinkdb.com/docs/install/osx/).

After downloading the disk image, mounting it (double click) and running the rethinkdb.pkg installer, you need to manually create the data directory:

```console
sudo mkdir -p /Library/RethinkDB
sudo chown <your-own-user-id> /Library/RethinkDB
mkdir /Library/RethinkDB/data
```

And you will need to manually create the launchd config file to run RethinkDB every time at login. From within this repo run:

```console
cp ./opt/com.rethinkdb.server.plist ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.rethinkdb.server.plist
```

And to run RethinkDB now:

```console
launchctl load ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.rethinkdb.server.plist
```

Verify you can access the RethinkDB admin console:

```console
open http://localhost:8080/
```

After installing with the binary package:

* Your RethinkDB binary will be at `/usr/local/bin/rethinkdb`
* Your RethinkDB data directory will be at `/Library/RethinkDB/data`
* Your RethinkDB log will be at `/var/log/rethinkdb.log`
* Your RethinkDB launchd file will be at `~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.rethinkdb.server.plist`


##### RethinkDB for Linux

If you run Linux on your development environment (good for you, hardcore!) you can get a package for you distribution or compile from source. Details are on the [installation page](http://rethinkdb.com/docs/install/).

##### RethinkDB for Windows

RethinkDB [isn't supported on Windows](https://github.com/rethinkdb/rethinkdb/issues/1100) directly. If you are stuck on Windows, you can run Linux in a virtualized environment to host RethinkDB.

#### Required Secrets

A secret is shared between the Interaction service and the [Authentication service](https://github.com/open-company/open-company-auth) for creating and validating [JSON Web Tokens](https://jwt.io/).

An [AWS SQS queue](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) is used to pass messages to the Interaction service from Slack. Setup an SQS Queue and key/secret access to the queue using the AWS Web Console or API.

You will also need to subscribe the SQS queue to the [Slack Router service](https://github.com/open-company/open-company-slack-router) SNS topic. To do this you will need to go to the AWS console and follow these instruction:

Go to the AWS SQS Console and select the SQS queue configured above. From the 'Queue Actions' dropdown, select 'Subscribe Queue to SNS Topic'. Select the SNS topic you've configured your Slack Router service instance to publish to, and click the 'Subscribe' button.

Make sure you update the `CHANGE-ME` items in the section of the `project.clj` that looks like this to contain your actual JWT, and AWS secrets:

```clojure
    ;; Dev environment and dependencies
    :dev [:qa {
      :env ^:replace {
        :db-name "open_company_storage_dev"
        :liberator-trace "true" ; liberator debug data in HTTP response headers
        :hot-reload "true" ; reload code when changed on the file system
        :open-company-auth-passphrase "this_is_a_dev_secret" ; JWT secret
        :aws-access-key-id "CHANGE-ME"
        :aws-secret-access-key "CHANGE-ME"
        :aws-sqs-bot-queue "CHANGE-ME"
        :aws-sqs-slack-router-queue "CHANGE-ME"
        :aws-sns-interaction-topic-arn "" ; SNS topic to publish notifications (optional)        
        :log-level "debug"
      }
```

An optional [AWS SNS](https://aws.amazon.com/sns/) pub/sub topic is used to push notifications of interaction changes to interested listeners. If you want to take advantage of this capability, configure the `aws-sns-interaction-topic-arn` with the ARN (Amazon Resource Name) of the SNS topic you setup in AWS.

## Usage

Run the interaction service with: `lein start`

Or start a REPL with: `lein repl`

#### REPL

Next, you can try some things with Clojure by running the REPL from within this project:

```console
lein migrate-db
lein repl
```

Then enter these commands one-by-one, noting the output:

```clojure
;; start the development system
(go) ; NOTE: if you are already running the service externally to the REPL, use `(go 3737)` to change the port

;; create some interactions

(def author {
  :user-id "c133-43fe-8712"
  :teams ["f725-4791-80ac"]
  :name "Wile E. Coyote"
  :first-name "Wile"
  :last-name "Coyote"
  :avatar-url "http://www.emoticonswallpapers.com/avatar/cartoons/Wiley-Coyote-Dazed.jpg"
  :email "wile.e.coyote@acme.com"
  :auth-source "slack"
})

(interaction/create-comment! conn
  (interaction/->comment {:org-uuid "abcd-1234-abcd"
                          :board-uuid "1234-abcd-1234"
                          :resource-uuid "abcd-5678-abcd"
                          :body "That all looks great to me!"} author))

(interaction/create-reaction! conn
  (interaction/->reaction {:org-uuid "abcd-1234-abcd"
                           :board-uuid "1234-abcd-1234"
                           :resource-uuid "abcd-5678-abcd"
                           :reaction "😀"} author))

(interaction/create-comment-reaction! conn
  (interaction/->comment-reaction {:org-uuid "abcd-1234-abcd"
                                   :board-uuid "1234-abcd-1234"
                                   :resource-uuid "abcd-5678-abcd"
                                   :interaction-uuid "5678-abcd-5678"
                                   :reaction "👌"} author))
```

A Slack webhook is used to mirror Slack replies to OpenCompany comments back into OpenCompany.

To use the webhook from Slack with local development, you need to run the [Slack Router service](https://github.com/open-company/open-company-slack-router).

You will then need to subscribe the SQS queue to the correct SNS topic.
See the Slack Router service README.

## Technical Design

The interaction service is composed of 4 main responsibilities:

- CRUD of comments and reactions
- WebSocket notifications of comment and reaction CRUD to listening clients
- Pushing new comments to Slack
- Receiving new comments from Slack
- Publishing comment and reaction change notifications to interested subscribers via SNS

![Interaction Service Diagram](https://cdn.rawgit.com/open-company/open-company-interaction/mainline/docs/Interaction-Service.svg)

The Interaction Service shares a RethinkDB database instance with the [Storage Service](https://github.com/open-company/open-company-storage).

![Interaction Schema Diagram](https://cdn.rawgit.com/open-company/open-company-interaction/mainline/docs/Interaction-Schema.svg)

## Testing

Tests are run in continuous integration of the `master` and `mainline` branches on [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/open-company/open-company-interaction):

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/open-company/open-company-interaction.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/open-company/open-company-interaction)

To run the tests locally:

```console
lein kibit
lein eastwood
```


## Participation

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](https://github.com/open-company/open-company-interaction/blob/mainline/CODE-OF-CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.


## License

Copyright © 2017-2018 OpenCompany, LLC.

Distributed under the [Mozilla Public License v2.0](http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/) with the [Commons Clause](https://commonsclause.com/).

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the [Commons Clause](https://commonsclause.com/) and the [Mozilla Public License v2.0](http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/) for more details.
